docs: update Next.js CLI docs (#62304)
vercel/next.js: docs/02-app/02-api-reference/08-next-cli.mdx

---
title: Next.js CLI

> description: The Next.js CLI allows you to develop, build, and start your application, and more. Learn more about it here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how the Next.js CLI allows you to develop, build, and start your application, and more.
```

---

{/* The content of this doc is shared between the app and pages router. You can use the `<PagesOnly>Content</PagesOnly>` component to add content that is specific to the Pages Router. Any shared content should not be wrapped in a component. */}

> The Next.js CLI allows you to develop, build, and start your application, and more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Next.js CLI allows you to develop, build, start your application, and more.
```

The output should look like this:

```bash filename="Terminal"
Usage next [options] [command]

The Next.js CLI allows you to develop, build, and start your application, and more.

Options:
  -v, --version                Outputs the Next.js version.
  -h, --help                   Displays this message.

Commands:
  build [directory] [options]  Creates an optimized production build of your application.
                               The output displays information about each route.

>   dev [directory] [options]    Starts Next.js in Development mode with hot-code reloading,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  dev [directory] [options]    Starts Next.js in development mode with [fast refresh](/docs/architecture/fast-refresh),
```

                               error reporting, and more.

>   info [options]               Prints relevant details about the current system which can be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  info [options]               Prints relevant details about the current system, which can be
```

                               used to report Next.js bugs.

>   lint [directory] [options]   Runs ESLint for all files in the `/src`, `/app`, `/pages`,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  lint [directory] [options]   Runs [ESLint](/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/eslint) for all files in the `/src`, `/app`, `/pages`,
```

                               `/components`, and `/lib` directories. It also provides a

>                                guided setup to install any required dependencies if ESLint

Reviewer 3: Nit

```suggestion
                               guided setup to install required dependencies if ESLint
```

                               is not already configured in your application.

>   start [directory] [options]  Starts Next.js in production mode. The application should be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  start [directory] [options]  Starts Next.js in Production mode. The application should be
```

Reviewer: Looks like we're lowercasing further down. Example → https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/62304/files#diff-b1f898409774308431726a8d0e159f3f5562cc31d112721f8dbb2f963ae86629R58

Author: @manovotny Good catch! I need to make sure the actual help output is lowercased.

                               compiled with `next build` first.
  telemetry [options]          Allows you to enable or disable Next.js' completely

>                                anonymous telemetry collection.

Reviewer 3: It might be better to add this to a table. 

Syntax:

```
| Command | Description | 
|-----------|-----------|
| build [directory] [options] | Creates an optimized production build of your application. The output displays information about each route. |
```

```

You can pass any [node arguments](https://nodejs.org/api/cli.html#cli_node_options_options) to `next` commands:

```bash filename="Terminal"

> NODE_OPTIONS='--throw-deprecation' npx next
> NODE_OPTIONS='-r esm' npx next
> NODE_OPTIONS='--inspect' npx next

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NODE_OPTIONS='--throw-deprecation' next
NODE_OPTIONS='-r esm' next
NODE_OPTIONS='--inspect' next
```
I don't think we want to show `npx` here as that might cause users to have a different version run from their locally installed version

```

> **Good to know**: Running `next` without a command is the same as running `next dev`

## Development

`next dev` starts the application in development mode with hot-code reloading, error reporting, and more.

To get a list of the available options with `next dev`, run the following command inside your project directory:

```bash filename="Terminal"

> npx next dev -h

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
next dev -h
```

npx next dev -H 192.168.1.2
```

### Turbo (beta)

> [Turbopack](https://turbo.build/pack) (beta), our new bundler we're testing and stabilizing through Next.js, helps speed up local iterations while working on your Next.js application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Turbopack](https://turbo.build/pack) (beta), our new bundler, which is being tested and stabilized in Next.js, helps speed up local iterations while working on your application.
```

npx next dev --turbo
```

### HTTPS for Local Development

For certain use cases like webhooks or authentication, it may be required to use HTTPS to have a secure environment on `localhost`. Next.js can generate a self-signed certificate with `next dev` as follows:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx next dev --experimental-https
```

You can also provide a custom certificate and key with `--experimental-https-key` and `--experimental-https-cert`. Optionally, you can provide a custom CA certificate with `--experimental-https-ca` as well.

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx next dev --experimental-https --experimental-https-key ./certificates/localhost-key.pem --experimental-https-cert ./certificates/localhost.pem
```

`next dev --experimental-https` is only intended for development and creates a locally-trusted certificate with `mkcert`. In production, use properly issued certificates from trusted authorities. When deploying to Vercel, HTTPS is [automatically configured](https://vercel.com/docs/security/encryption) for your Next.js application.

## Build

`next build` creates an optimized production build of your application. The output displays information about each route.

> - **Size** – The number of assets downloaded when navigating to the page client-side. The size for each route only includes its dependencies.

Reviewer 3: Nit 

```suggestion
- **Size**: The number of assets downloaded when navigating to the page client-side. The size for each route only includes its dependencies.
```

> - **First Load JS** – The number of assets downloaded when visiting the page from the server. The amount of JS shared by all is shown as a separate metric.

Reviewer 3: Before jumping into **size** and **First Load JS**, maybe there could be a small snippet showing what the output looks like?

Author: <picture data-single-emoji=":done:" title=":done:"><img class="emoji" width="20" height="auto" src="https://emoji.slack-edge.com/T0CAQ00TU/done/556da3823bdfab37.png" alt=":done:" align="absmiddle"></picture> !

> - **First Load JS** – The number of assets downloaded when visiting the page from the server. The amount of JS shared by all is shown as a separate metric.

Reviewer 3: What is by all in this instance? All routes?

```suggestion
- **First Load JS**: The number of assets downloaded when visiting the page from the server. The amount of JS shared by all is shown as a separate metric.
```

> Both of these values are **compressed with gzip**. The first load is indicated by green, yellow, or red. Aim for green for performant applications.

Reviewer 3: Could link to the compression docs here. 

```suggestion
Both of these values are [**compressed with gzip**](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/compress). The first load is indicated by green, yellow, or red. Aim for green for performant applications.
```

To get a list of the available options with `next build`, run the following command inside your project directory:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx next build -h
```

The output should look like this:

```bash filename="Terminal"
Usage: next build [directory] [options]

Creates an optimized production build of your application. The output displays information
about each route.

Arguments:
  [directory]    A directory on which to build the application. If no directory is
                 provided, the current directory will be used.

Options:
  -d, --debug    Eanbles a more verbose build output.
  --profile      Enables production profiling for React.
  --no-lint      Disables linting.
  --no-mangling  Disables mangling.
  -h, --help     Displays this message.
```

### Profiling

You can enable production profiling for React with the `--profile` flag in `next build`. This requires [Next.js 9.5](/blog/next-9-5):

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx next build --profile
```

After that, you can use the profiler in the same way as you would in development.

### Debug

> You can enable more verbose build output with the `--debug` flag in `next build`. This requires Next.js 9.5.3:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable more verbose build output with the `--debug` flag in `next build`. This requires Next.js 9.5.3 or higher:
```

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx next build --debug
```

With this flag enabled additional build output like rewrites, redirects, and headers will be shown.

### Linting

You can disable linting for builds like so:

```bash filename="Terminal"
next build --no-lint
```

### Mangling

> You can disable [mangling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Name_mangling) for builds like so:

Reviewer 3: TIL, nice 😄

> npx next dev -H 192.168.1.2

Reviewer 4: Looks like this one randomly had it previously while others didn't

```

> ### Turbo (beta)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Turbopack
```

[Turbopack](https://turbo.build/pack) (beta), our new bundler, which is being tested and stabilized in Next.js, helps speed up local iterations while working on your application.

> To use Turbopack in development mode, add the `--turbo` option like so:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use Turbopack in development mode, add the `--turbo` option:
```

```bash filename="Terminal"

> npx next dev --turbo

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
next dev --turbo
```

```

### HTTPS for Local Development

For certain use cases like webhooks or authentication, it may be required to use HTTPS to have a secure environment on `localhost`. Next.js can generate a self-signed certificate with `next dev` as follows:

```bash filename="Terminal"

> npx next dev --experimental-https

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
next dev --experimental-https
```
Same as https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/62304/files#r1509632779

```

You can also provide a custom certificate and key with `--experimental-https-key` and `--experimental-https-cert`. Optionally, you can provide a custom CA certificate with `--experimental-https-ca` as well.

```bash filename="Terminal"

> npx next dev --experimental-https --experimental-https-key ./certificates/localhost-key.pem --experimental-https-cert ./certificates/localhost.pem

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
next dev --experimental-https --experimental-https-key ./certificates/localhost-key.pem --experimental-https-cert ./certificates/localhost.pem
```

```bash filename="Terminal"
Route (app)                               Size     First Load JS
┌ ○ /                                     5.3 kB         89.5 kB
├ ○ /_not-found                           885 B          85.1 kB
└ ○ /about                                137 B          84.4 kB
+ First Load JS shared by all             84.2 kB
  ├ chunks/184-d3bb186aac44da98.js        28.9 kB
  ├ chunks/30b509c0-f3503c24f98f3936.js   53.4 kB
  └ other shared chunks (total)

○  (Static)  prerendered as static content
```

- **Size**: The number of assets downloaded when navigating to the page client-side. The size for each route only includes its dependencies.
- **First Load JS**: The number of assets downloaded when visiting the page from the server. The amount of JS shared by all is shown as a separate metric.

Both of these values are [**compressed with gzip**](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/compress). The first load is indicated by green, yellow, or red. Aim for green for performant applications.

To get a list of the available options with `next build`, run the following command inside your project directory:

```bash filename="Terminal"

> npx next build -h

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
next build -h
```

```

The output should look like this:

```bash filename="Terminal"
Usage: next build [directory] [options]

Creates an optimized production build of your application. The output displays information
about each route.

Arguments:
  [directory]    A directory on which to build the application. If no directory is
                 provided, the current directory will be used.

Options:
  -d, --debug    Eanbles a more verbose build output.
  --profile      Enables production profiling for React.
  --no-lint      Disables linting.
  --no-mangling  Disables mangling.
  -h, --help     Displays this message.
```

### Profiling

You can enable production profiling for React with the `--profile` flag in `next build`.

```bash filename="Terminal"

> npx next build --profile

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
next build --profile
```

> You can enable production profiling for React with the `--profile` flag in `next build`. This requires [Next.js 9.5](/blog/next-9-5) or higher:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can enable production profiling for React with the `--profile` flag in `next build`.
```

```

After that, you can use the profiler in the same way as you would in development.

### Debug

You can enable more verbose build output with the `--debug` flag in `next build`.

```bash filename="Terminal"

> npx next build --debug

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
next build --debug
```

> You can enable more verbose build output with the `--debug` flag in `next build`. This requires Next.js 9.5.3 or higher:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can enable more verbose build output with the `--debug` flag in `next build`.
```

```

With this flag enabled additional build output like rewrites, redirects, and headers will be shown.

### Linting

You can disable linting for builds like so:

```bash filename="Terminal"
next build --no-lint
```

### Mangling

You can disable [mangling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Name_mangling) for builds like so:

```bash filename="Terminal"

> npx next build --no-mangling

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
next build --no-mangling
```

```

> **Good to know**: This may affect performance and should only be used for debugging purposes.

## Production

`next start` starts the application in production mode. The application should be compiled with [`next build`](#build) first.

To get a list of the available options with `next start`, run the follow command inside your project directory:

```bash filename="Terminal"

> npx next start -h

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
next start -h
```

`next info` prints relevant details about the current system which can be used to report Next.js bugs.
This information includes Operating System platform/arch/version, Binaries (Node.js, npm, Yarn, pnpm) and npm package versions (`next`, `react`, `react-dom`).

To get a list of the available options with `next info`, run the following command inside your project directory:

```bash filename="Terminal"

> npx next info -h

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
next info -h
```

                                         If no directory is provided, the current
                                         directory will be used.

Options:
  -d, --dir, <dirs...>                   Include directory, or directories, to run ESLint.
  --file, <files...>                     Include file, or files, to run ESLint.
  --ext, [exts...]                       Specify JavaScript file extensions. (default:
                                         [".js", ".mjs", ".cjs", ".jsx", ".ts", ".mts", ".cts", ".ts
x"])
  -c, --config, <config>                 Uses this configuration file, overriding all other
                                         configuration options.
  --resolve-plugins-relative-to, <rprt>  Specify a directory where plugins should be
                                         resolved from.
  --strict                               Creates a `.eslintrc.json` file using the Next.js
                                         strict configuration.
  --rulesdir, <rulesdir...>              Uses additional rules from this directory(s).
  --fix                                  Automatically fix linting issues.

>   --fix-type <fixType>                   Specify the types of fixes to apply (e.g., problem,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --fix-type <fixType>                   Specify the types of fixes to apply (e.g. problem,
```

Author: Grammarly taught me to use a comma after a `e.g.` <picture data-single-emoji=":lol:" title=":lol:"><img class="emoji" width="20" height="auto" src="https://emoji.slack-edge.com/T0CAQ00TU/lol/5986e156eca2154f.png" alt=":lol:" align="absmiddle"></picture>  → https://www.bachelorprint.com/commas/comma-before-or-after-e-g/#:~:text=The%20abbreviation%20%E2%80%9Ce.g.%E2%80%9D%20stands%20for,It%20is%20parenthetic.

                                         unmatched.
  -h, --help                             Displays this message.
```

If you have other directories that you would like to lint, you can specfy them using the `--dir` flag:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx next lint --dir utils
```

For more information on the other options, check out our [ESLint](/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/eslint) configuration documentation.

## Telemetry

Next.js collects **completely anonymous** telemetry data about general usage.
Participation in this anonymous program is optional, and you may opt-out if you'd not like to share any information.

To get a list of the available options with `next telemetry`, run the following command in your project directory:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx next telemetry -h
```

The output should look like this:

```bash filename="Terminal"
Usage: next telemetry [options]

Allows you to enable or disable Next.js' completely anonymous telemetry collection.

Options:
  --enable    Eanbles Next.js' telemetry collection.
  --disable   Disables Next.js' telemetry collection.
  -h, --help  Displays this message.

Learn more: https://nextjs.org/telemetry
```

> To learn more about Telemetry, [please read this document](/telemetry/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about [Telemetry](/telemetry/).
```

provides a guided setup to install any required dependencies if ESLint is not already configured in
your application.

To get a list of the available options with `next lint`, run the following command inside your project directory:

```bash filename="Terminal"

> npx next lint -h

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
next lint -h
```

  --max-warnings [maxWarnings]           Specify the number of warnings before triggering a
                                         non-zero exit code. (default: -1)
  -o, --output-file, <outputFile>        Specify a file to write report to.
  -f, --format, <format>                 Uses a specifc output format.
  --no-inline-config                     Prevents comments from changing config or rules.
  --report-unused-disable-directives     Adds reprted errors for unused eslint-disable
                                         directives.
  --no-cache                             Disables caching.
  --cache-location, <cacheLocation>      Specify a location for cache.
  --cache-strategy, [cacheStrategy]      Specify a strategy to use for detecting changed
                                         files in the cache. (default: "metadata")
  --error-on-unmatched-pattern           Reports errors when any file patterns are
                                         unmatched.
  -h, --help                             Displays this message.
```

If you have other directories that you would like to lint, you can specfy them using the `--dir` flag:

```bash filename="Terminal"

> npx next lint --dir utils

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
next lint --dir utils
```

```

For more information on the other options, check out our [ESLint](/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/eslint) configuration documentation.

## Telemetry

Next.js collects **completely anonymous** telemetry data about general usage.
Participation in this anonymous program is optional, and you may opt-out if you'd not like to share any information.

To get a list of the available options with `next telemetry`, run the following command in your project directory:

```bash filename="Terminal"

> npx next telemetry -h

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
next telemetry -h
```
